A Note From the Designer
========================

This is the game I've been trying to make for nearly thirty years — ever since my copy of *Combat! Normandy* arrived. The rules were a mess, the counters were thin and small, with hardly any information printed on them — some had none at all. I was obsessed with collecting the entire system, and then they changed the rules. Then they changed them again, and again. It went from a simple game with a bad rulebook to a fairly complex Advanced Tobruk System (ATS), because they started over from scratch, primarily to scale things to the vehicle engine they were importing. I don't blame them one bit — I do the same thing. I'm never happy with a project, and I'll fiddle with it forever. Every release seems to arrive just before you discover a problem, or an elegant fix for a common one.

From there I discovered ASL, and also that the price of admission — if you could even find it — was steep. I knew opponents for me were nonexistent. I worked on various mapping systems and rule systems over the years; some were promising, but none really had what I was looking for. Then I backed OST on Kickstarter. It arrived, and it was pretty much what I'd hoped for — I'd be able to collect the entire series and play every theatre under one ruleset. After spending a lot of money over the next few years, I realized that wasn't going to happen. Rule revisions came out — no big deal — until version 2 of the first boxed game arrived. That was more than a rule update. I lost interest.

I kept poking around in my spreadsheets, googling for obscure printed sources on British AT guns or some other detail, nearly giving up. Then, suddenly, I had an epiphany: with AI where it is now, surely I could build the system I actually wanted. AI can handle the endless typing and indexing, the moving and organizing of rules as a system evolves. I started again, and this time it seems to have worked. But I'm a sucker for detail, and scope creep is practically named after me — so what started as a fast-play, quick-learn system became a modernized, all-encompassing one. If it doesn't already rival ASL for rules and situational depth — terrain, units, training, and everything else — it soon will. There's a companion app in development on the side to generate nearly endless hex maps, but it isn't ready yet.

I hope no one is scared off by the AI-made or AI-assisted content we've all been inundated with lately — but this isn't that. This is me, working for seven or eight hours straight without a break, directing three or more AI sessions at once as we researched, ran statistics, argued over fonts and colors, and worked out the best procedures to get exactly what I wanted. The dice are mine. The counter design is mine. The mini CRT/reference card is mine. The rules are mine. Sure, much of it may ring a bell — that doesn't mean it's stolen or recycled. It's simply the best of what already works, mixed with newer and better ways of doing it, and I'm giving all of it away here for free. This is ASL for people who can't afford ASL.
